# Mike Rizzo - YouTube Transcripts
**Collected via Supadata API on**: 2026-06-21

---

## Video 1 - Why MarketingOps Is More Than Marketing
**Source**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HM2W9Yp_krI
**Context**: Mike argue MOps adalah product function, bukan cuma marketing. Discusses MarketingOps.com community-led model.

### Transcript

I posted that marketing ops isn't marketing and everybody was like what are you talking about? It was really really fascinating to see people vacasillate between you're absolutely crazy. Literally the word marketing is in the name marketing ops and then turn around a week or two later and go actually maybe it isn't marketing. I'm Jonathan Gandalf and welcome to the Content Cocktail Hour powered by Audience Plus. Our mission is to shake out the deepest secrets of B2B marketing professionals and stir up fresh conversation. All to help you connect your brand with the right audience at the right time. Let's raise a glass. Welcome back to the Content Cocktail Hour. This is Jonathan Gandalf, today's host, co-founder, and CEO of Audience Plus. I'm thrilled to be joined by one of my favorite marketers today, CEO and founder of Marketing Ops, Mike Rizzo. We're going to talk about all things marketing ops today. I had to check before we hit record here on a few of these topics, make sure they're not cliche, but it does really feel like marketing ops is having a moment here with all things AI, all things doing more with less. And maybe the person in the community leading the charge on that, at least in the B2B tech space here, is marketing ops.com. I would encourage everybody to check it out. We'll get into all of that. Mike, before we do that though, feel free just give tell me a little bit about your background, a little bit about what you're up to at marking ops.com. Sure. Yeah, thanks for having me on. I appreciate connecting with you as always. Uh, but yeah, in terms of what are we working on, oh gosh, we're working on all kinds of things. Uh, but the direction and sort of purpose of our community, uh, at the end of the day, that's what we are. We're a community of practitioners that are either current practitioners in marketing ops or uh you know sort of marketing technology roles or those that are aspiring to be in a marketing ops and marketing technology role. uh we are on a path to building what I hope will be seen as the certification and and really what it truly means to be a professional in marketing operations and uh the value the strategic value frankly that we provide to organizations who are looking to deliver on go to market uh and the the various capabilities that are out there and so um that's the the path that we're charting to get there. We're just uh I I I think you might have remembered probably the listen and viewers of the show community-led was a big buzzword for a while, right? And um we really mean it at markets.com like uh everything that we do. Mops palooa the conference uh springfling which had recently just happened our webinars like literally any almost all of it has been because somebody or many somebody's asked us to try to do it. And so we're just in charge of hurting the cats, so to speak and trying to make sense of it all uh and ultimately provide value back to our members and the broader like ecosystem that we all serve. I love that. And Mike, is your background marketing ops? Did you grow up in this space and see like feel like there was this gap of kind of community amongst the marketing ops profession or how did you land here? Yeah, it's a good question. Um none of this was planned is the short answer. I won't pretend like I didn't feel the pain of this as a practitioner, but it was born out of me being a team of one in marketing operations. I was a demand genen marketing op field events sort of marketer that was getting us to and from our conferences, appending data, doing new integrations, you name it. The traditional multi hat startup marketer. And I fell in love with the tech side of it, database orientation and object orientation and oh gosh enrichment and you name it. I really loved that side of of the technology and found out it was called marketing ops and then eventually was like trying to find more people. Couldn't find anybody. And every time I talked to somebody in my organization about uh hey like here's the thing I'm dealing with, they'd sort of like their eyes would glaze over. I don't know what you're talking about. And and so I started a I wrote a Medium blog post that just said like, hey, there's this thing called Slack. And uh this is like Circo 2017. And if anybody wants to hang out with me and like talk shop, I don't care what tools you use, like would love to. Um and by 2019, we started to grow really fast. And we grew about 110 members a month from 2019 up until just recently. And it really hasn't slowed down, frankly. It's just the model and the things have changed. And yeah, I was totally born out of a very selfish desire to not feel so alone. Nothing wrong around that. Great invention comes out of necessity, right? And hey, you found your people. You've got a community of them. And now you're on a podcast with a bunch of marketing nerds who we're all going to geek out. Uh our eyes won't glaze over, our ears won't glaze over uh for this episode. So excited to dig in to to all of it. Before we do that though, it is the content cocktail hour. Mike, uh, we always ask all of our guests, what are you enjoying drinking nowadays? At the moment, I am enjoying actually being able to enjoy a bourbon again every once in a while. I went through, not that I'm an advocate for alcohol or anything like that, but uh, I went through a journey of doing a little bit of a a health shift. And I don't know, for those of you that have never seen me before, I'm down about 20 pounds right now. And I'm super happy about it. But it was a new journey I've been going on. And so there's no room in the diet for bourbon when you're on a cut. I'm I'm excited. I'm at maintenance calories and I get to have a few bourbons occasionally. There you go. There's a lesson in there, I think. Uh a liquid calories always bad and count your calories and that's funny how that works. I I'm a big bourbon fan myself. For those watching, there's actually a bourbon barrel here back in the background. Oh, that's rad. From a career in the past, spent some time adjacent to that industry. So, same thing I kind of went through, you know, there was probably a time when there was too much being enjoyed, but time and place uh I can actually uh sit down, relax, and enjoy it a bit more. Sometimes building things um you know, you you just want to take a little break. Yes, that's for sure. Uh well, that we'll save that conversation for another episode. Today's episode all about marking ops. Um, so I'm going to tee up a little bit of kind of like my perspective on this space and feel free to push back on it or disagree with it or of course agree with it. I would love that. But uh, so marketing ops feels like it's having maybe a bit of a moment. It feels like there's maybe two uh, contrasting things happening in the space and marketing ops kind of sits at the middle of it. One is the classic do more with less, right? Marketing budgets are shrinking, marketing tool stacks, tech stacks are shrinking, teams shrinking, just all the resourcing around marketing being decreased. At the same time, all these AI capabilities are increasing, right? Different tools are being start or launched every day. There's more you can do with AI tools. A lot of the like tech generative AI use cases are are built for marketers. And so there's this like contraption happening in marketing and also this expansion of what's possible and it feels like sitting right at the core of that is marketing ops trying to make sense of it all. Is that a fair kind of perspective of what's going on in the space? Yeah, I think it is a fair perspective. It makes sense when you know this like just sort of scratching at this do more with less thing that was definitely buzzing around in the last year and a half or so. I mean arguably still now but I don't think people are pushing that message and mantra as quite as much as they were. That is a symptom of the capabilities that are being unlocked certainly by AI but it's also a symptom of the fact that people are recognizing that there has been sort of um bloat and and it's really feature bloat and it's capability bloat, right? like when you have tools that service the same needs just in slightly different flavors, um you you do end up inevitably in a place where you you do need to make a decision on okay, which of these is really servicing our organizational go to market needs. The unfortunate part of where we're at right now on this do more with less and the um budget shrinking and the tech stack shrinking is that it's actually coming from the budget side or flipped. I'd be very excited because that would mean that marketing operations professionals who are very well equipped to help an organization go to market and they're told that we don't have enough money to do something and we just have to start cutting things and you start to run into all kinds of issues around, you know, we've lost capabilities that that we didn't even know we had before or we didn't realize we were trying to use those for those reasons. And there's a lack of alignment in the model for um achieving the objectives and key results for the business in the go to market tech stack, right? And so I think marketing ops is sitting at this really interesting place of trying to make sense of AI on the tech stack and all those things, but they're also at this interesting intersection of it's time for you to sort of uh what's what's the term? Like grab the bull by the horns. It is a great opportunity for you to lead the charge on adopting the go to market tech stack and driving the um implementation and potential of all the new capabilities that are being unlocked through AI and step in as the owner which I think is is actually kind of exciting. Like it feels a little chaotic for sure but I think it's a really really good opportunity and a good space to be in right now. I love the like optimistic kind of outlook on that and like yeah this is like it's a bit chaotic but with chaos also comes opportunity. You mentioned something there I think it before even talking about grabbing the bull by the horns but like the marketing ops person being told what to do. I've seen it in organizations where like the marketing ops person is like they're being told to integrate HubSpot with this and that and it's like they're almost like an order taker versus what you're explaining of like grabbing the bull by the horns. How does somebody who's maybe they're they are literally the marketing ops title and role versus I think a lot of times it's the demand gen marketer it's the marketing analytics person that is the pseudo marketing ops kind of person on the team. How can somebody who's sitting in that role whether literally defined or not shift from being that being told what to do versus grabbing the bowl by the horns like you mentioned? First, when I'm asked this question, and you can imagine like it comes up fairly regularly, right? The thing that I like to share is um it takes time, right? Like I don't expect like if you're in your first year or two of work, uh first of all, don't put that kind of pressure on yourself. It's just not a good idea. Uh absorb the knowledge like enjoy the journey and and learn the things. Join a community. Yeah, join a community. Do do whatever you need to do to like go absorb and learn and grow and elevate your career in the ways that you should be doing throughout your whole career, frankly, but definitely at the earlier parts. And then as you do get that sort of experience underneath your belt, it really just boils down to identifying the I guess like translating the needs of the business to to sort of the capabilities and the art of the possible. So like when you understand the language of the business, the motion of the business, and you act as a steward to effectively say, "Hey, this is what I heard from you." There's sales playbooks that teach you how to do this, right? You like echo back what the person just said to you to like make sure you got it right. Kind of the same thing. It's internal sales. Yeah. Yeah. In a lot of ways, there's so many people that are like internal customers is a bad way to think about it. I'm like, "Okay, I don't care what you call it. just just like make sure alignment is happening. I was like trying to avoid saying the darn word, but anyway, alignment's the word. And and really like play back what you're hearing, right? And then be a good steward toward that goal. If the goal is just by way of example, we're going to implement a new ABM strategy for our go to market motion because we want to be able to sell to the, you know, mid-market, upper mid-market companies that have x number of employees, da da da da da. Any time then that you are asked to do something, you are now a steward of that goal and that objective to say, "Hey, I hear you. you want me to go do this thing, right? Maybe it's send an email, maybe it's implement a new tracking code on the website, whatever. I want to make sure that this is somehow tied to one of the objectives that we all identified as important for this quarter, this year, etc. And as long as you act as that sort of like clarification, that clarifying role, you will start to command that um leadership and respect for hey, I I want to make sure we're I'm doing what the business needs and what we all agreed we said was important because if not, I have to push these other things off and now we're not hitting our objectives. And that's your sort of first forayway foray into grabbing the bolt by the horns and leading a strategic sort of alignment of marketing operations to the broader go to market motion. Yeah, I love that. It's a combination of like patience and being proactive when the opportunity presents itself. I think that's really good and I think regardless of marketing ops or really any role, any discipline, that's probably pretty good advice for people navigating career. Yeah, it does. I often think that myself where I'm like that feels like a really like almost like a copout like like um answer to be able to say it that way but like the reality is like to your point Jonathan like it's a fundamental right like good leaders make sure that there's alignment and some level of buyin like it's okay that not everybody agrees right but at least the majority are like saying yes this is what we're supposed to do and if you're a steward of that type of leadership you then move into okay now how do I deliver on on the thing that we're trying to do through technology which is the area that you're uniquely equipped to service right as a marketing ops professional it's like okay cool I understand our go to market motion I understand the products and services we sell I now know what my various stakeholders need to be able to feel like they're having success in their roles and I have either this big empty hole that I need to fill with capabilities or I have all these tools and I need to figure out which of the capabil ilities I need to deploy in order to enable that, right? But if they ask me to do something that falls outside of one of those objectives, I need to echo back this is going to cause a change in my road map, right? And and that's that's how you shift out of being an order taker. It's it's like saying no without saying no. Yeah. Love that. U you mentioned something earlier that maybe I'm I'm going to overindex on, but you called it the go to market tech stack. You didn't say as you were talking about marketing ops you didn't say the CRM you didn't say the marketing op or the marketing automation platform holistically kind of bundle I maybe maybe intentional or not intentional but in the age of AI you got to say alignment so I get to say age of AI yeah you know there's like this it's like incredibly how quick different tools can be adopted and used by different individuals or parts of the team where does marking off sit in that that go to market tech stack and kind of managing that versus just being the CRM person or just being the automation person feels like their spans of what maybe falls under that go to market tech stack umbrella is expanding. Yeah, I I hope it's expanding for a number of reasons. I'll touch on a conversation I just had yesterday in fact with uh someone who leads a a cohort an educational cohort program to teach people how to do like go to market engineering and just like you know trying to show people how to leverage AI great initiative people are you know learning this stuff is is hard taking the time to do so is certainly even more difficult and one of the things that that individual asked me was you know it feels like you know like a company like Clay for example was making a lot of noise in the space and like really has a good share of voice. It's it's not necessarily noise, but it's a good share of voice. It feels like it's like really heavily aligned to sales, right? Like, oh, like the sales SDRs and like all them like aren't they kind of just the ones running with it? And I was like, well, yeah, they are, but isn't this the same problem that we faced before, right? And sort of going back to, you know, his question for me was like, where does marketing ops fit in this? And like are they truly being asked to try to figure this stuff out or or do they not have the interest? Are they just being asked to do other things? Like their their backlog of tickets is too large. And I said, well, they are, but it's because people are sort of operating around the same set of expectations. We've all been here before. Like marketing automation came about 15 plus years ago, 20 years ago, right? And at that time it was like this magic like language. Everybody's like, "Oh, I could just flip the switch and leads will flow." And ironically, like we're seeing the exact same thing. We're just learning faster what works and doesn't work than we ever have before because the tools are that much easier to interact with. Like you didn't have to go become an expert in a platform to go try these things. Um it's faster to try out. And so what I think is sort of like I guess I'm forever the optimist on this stuff is um the opportunity is to say hey if you're executives or your board members are tasked with or rather asked hey who's in charge of your go to market tech stack who's responsible for building the tech stack of the future I don't think they have an answer for that from a leadership perspective today and we've been trying to solve this problem for forever, right? Um, RevOps was created. It's really sales ops 2.0. Um, we we keep trying to put like me and all the RevOps co-op people like all those folks, we're all pushing the right agenda like it should not be revops 2.0, etc. But somebody needs to be in charge of ensuring that the capabilities of our technology ecosystem deliver on the needs of our unique business model. One of the questions that comes up is like is AI going to replace MOPS in some way? Like we've seen it sort of replaced in some capabilities like some some types of jobs. And I think the answer is no. And I think the reason is that it's it's really about there's there's no wrong answer in go to market. You're going to hedge your bet and say, "Hey, we think that an ABM approach is really good for us at this stage of our business." And so we're going to go build out an ABM motion. Whether we buy a tool or we do it on our sort of own valition is a decision that we'll make. I could have equally have said at this stage of our business investing heavily in paid is a good idea. Like there's all kinds of things that you could try. AI is not going to just like make that decision for you because there isn't a if if business was that easy to rinse and repeat like we wouldn't none of us would be here, right? Like we would just like all go grow businesses. And so like I think the opportunity is that marketing ops and frankly like organizations in general leadership needs to turn and say don't allow someone to just go acquire tools again and start using features and deploy these things because I can guarantee that if your sales leader is adopting clay and they're not going to leverage the other signals that other products can bring into that ecosystem to have an even better experience for their customer journey. It's just going to create a bunch of chaos again. So, it's like put somebody in charge like align these things. I like the comparison you draw to like the marketing automation kind of evolution or revolution we went through. This is probably about a year ago. I had a uh one of my favorite marketers mentors from early in my career on the podcast and it was some throwaway line like things are changing faster than ever with AI and he's like no like he's like I was around when the internet wasn't like became a thing for marketers. He's like this is just the newest like change that we're all going through. He's like you know and I think you like it's the ability to learn and like continue to evolve with all this that'll separate the cream of the crop, right? Like we're such like prisoners of the moment. Oh, it's never changed this fast before. It's like it changes this fast every 3 or four years, right? We all figured out how to be virtual overnight, basically. Like, we're all going to figure this out, too. But I think the ability to learn and like kind of grab the bolt by the horns to go back to what you said earlier for the marketing ops person is really unique right now. Um, and I'm not just blowing smoke here. I think plugging into communities like marketing ops will help somebody have um not only know what's going on in their organization, what's working in their organization, but know what's working with their peers throughout the space as well. I think communities are really important for that ongoing ability to learn right now. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I mean, I have to I mean, I know everybody watching, listening, etc. Like, yes, I'm the CEO of of a community and yeah, I'm going to be a little bit biased on this, but like I I got to tell you, the ability to understand what's happening underneath the water, right? Like that duck looks real calm, but it's kicking and kicking. That only happens in private conversations in communities, right? Like they're not going to give you trade secrets. At least I hope they're not. Um but they are going to talk about oh you know here's sort of this challenge we faced while we were adopting this technology in service of this go to market motion and you might want to avoid that or what have you and um just that ability to sort of un lift the veil a little bit and uncover what these people are doing. It really only happens in those spaces. So whether that's our community or a different one I encourage you to go find your tribe cuz like that's the kind of stuff that you get out of it. Like beyond that, you get to meet other great people and build a career which is built on relationships. Um so that's that's also a win too. The LinkedIn feed is the uh ducks on top of the water. I feel like in the communities are the ducks beneath the water figuring it all out. Oh yeah, that's such a good analogy. Like I see so many great like uh you know here's the like 10 things that I did and I learned and like some of some of them are getting pretty good at like going a couple layers down and like showing you the art of the possible but you know that they went through like all kinds of trials and tribulations to actually get there. Love that. Well, Mike, uh appreciate all the insight. We always ask all of our guests, what's an unpopular opinion that you have as it pertains to B2B marketing? I did this last year. I'm going to just stick with it. I posted that marketing ops isn't marketing and everybody was like, "What are you talking about?" Um, uh, it was really, really fascinating to see people vacasillate between you're absolutely crazy. It literally the word marketing is in the name marketing ops and then turn around, you know, a week or two later and go actually maybe it isn't marketing. And so that's that's kind of my my my spicy take. I will say that I did round it out at Mops of Palooa, our conference last year and um I did explain that marketing ops isn't just marketing. Um it is about so much more than that. But uh uh I did not intentionally do that. It really was. It came from a place of like marketing ops is is beyond what we would think of as the four Ps in traditional marketing. And I think people need to try to start thinking about it in a different way. Yeah. So in that extreme scenario, and sorry I maybe missed this from a year ago, but in that extreme scenario of it not being marketing, is it an ops role? Is it a sales role? Is it uh its own kind of function at that point? If it's not marketing, what is it? For lack of a better way to describe it, in my opinion, I've sort of landed on it's a it's a product function. Fascinating. You know, we talked earlier about like the go to market tech stack. Um really that's a product and um go to market is a product and it's just made up of lots of different sort of variables. As a marketing operations professional, your job is to figure out figure out, manage and maintain an incredible product. and that product and those responsibilities are um first and foremost you are a steward of safe brand compliant motions. You have to literally be in charge of making sure you're not spamming the world and that all of those things are being enabled by technology. Secondly, you have a lot of stakeholders. You've got sales, you've got customer success in some cases, you've got certainly the marketing team itself, and they all have different needs. They all have different technologies they're using, and you need to figure out how to optimally deploy those in service of the go to market motion that they've decided that they want to place their bets on. And then I would say the last sort of thing is that you need to figure out how to understand financial ROI, right? like your your job is to like make sure we're deploying these things in the most effective and efficient way possible. And so therefore, when you're building your sort of feature roadmap or your backlog of capabilities that you want to deploy to enable the business, you want to have a really strong tie back to well, how did that help? Right? And not everything is going to be a onetoone win in terms of uh this thing we did generated X dollars. But it's important to understand how the business recognizes revenue and how it makes money so that you can be a good steward of deploying the product that is effectively the go to market tech stack. I think of it as a product function and I think if people start thinking of it that way, it would be maybe a little less directly tied to the great debate about, you know, attribution and does the does HubSpot or Marquetto or whatever generate ROI and all this other stuff like like the answer is yes and no. Yeah. Right. All at the same time. Yeah. It goes back to saying what you said earlier. There's there's no right or wrong way to do go to market. if we had all the answers, we'd all be doing the exact same thing, and that's not the case. So, I like that. That's a a really strong opinion and a really strong perspective and has my wheels spinning a little bit. So, thank you for sharing that. Of course. Yeah, thanks for thanks for asking. Of course. And if people want to learn more from you or learn more about the marketing ops community or the events, what's the best way to do that? There's a couple places. For me in particular, I am Mike D as in David Rizzo. Uh that's my handle on LinkedIn. So slashin/miked drizzo. You can follow me or connect. Uh if you're not a salesperson, you can connect. Uh beyond that, we have our website marketing ops.com. Come hang out, learn, listen, join the community if you want. Uh we would love to have you. And then join us at mopsa palooa, which is a mouthful, but a fun word to say and has its own website as well. All one word. M O P S A L A Palooa. You know, all that stuff. Mopsa. We'll get all of the links in the show notes so nobody has to worry about sounding it out and spelling it out. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, let let me spell my own word. It's like the spelling be. There's like a ding if you get a wrong ding. Well, Mike, thank you uh so much for joining the content cocktail hour. To all of our watchers, all of our listeners, thanks for joining another episode. Until next time, same time, same place. Cheers. Cheers. Thank you for joining the content cocktail hour powered by Audience Plus. If you want to see more episodes or more resources curated for your role, join us at audienceplus.com. See you next time. Same time, same place. Cheers.

### Why I picked this
Mike contoh paling rare: founder yang bangun community DULU, baru product. Reverse PLG. Relevant case untuk pikir community-first GTM.

---

## Video 2 - Mike Rizzo on Leveraging Community for Marketing Ops
**Source**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F86vaNkLtLc
**Context**: Mike breakdown bagaimana MOps community jadi platform untuk knowledge-sharing dan business development.

### Transcript

[Music] we made this hello Mike hey we made it hey Laura made this so really nice to meet you Mike yeah it's good to be here amazing so everybody who has been patiently waiting for five minutes till we got this buffered off meet Mike Mike Rizo I met you just at the beginning of my career dream data so feels like we're almost friends at that time you were just doing part-time like oh this is a little thing like doing marketing Ops and Y yada yada it's not a little thing anymore so mizo founder CEO of marketing operations. so nice to have you here he I appreciate it yeah uh yeah it's not it's not little anymore we do lots of fun things all community-led too so I appreciate you uh inviting me on it's been fun this is fantastic So today we're going to speak about building a community what type of a community Mike is building probably a little bit of a history what happened there and so on but we're ALS going to talk a lot about marketing operations about the not anymore upand cominging title the title that a lot of companies already have in their organizations one of the titles that is getting really really key and not many communities for those people to hang around with so I'm really looking forward to this conversation Mike help us out with a little story of why did you actually thought of this community at all back then ah goodness okay sure so the the start of this so first of all I want to start by saying like none of this was planned um I I had no Grand Vision uh for any of this right but um you know when when organizations talk about being community-led um we we we use that term all the time and we really mean it uh so really what what exists today is because the community came together and um basically asked for for a lot of what we what we've done and so the the short story is like many marketing operations professionals I was a team of one um very few people in my organization had any idea of the challenges or or let alone like what I was talking about when I was you know bringing up some of the maybe issues of the way the systems integrated or the processes we we might want to um you know bring in and and so I endeavored to start a a little thing on slack slack was pretty new in 2017 uh I was like I was 2015 2016 2017 is when all this was sort of happening um I wrote a blog post about that slack Channel and over time people started asking to join it and by 2019 the the number of requests to join were too frequent um for me to do a onetoone invite process uh and so I I had to figure figure out a way to sort of automate that flow a little bit surprise because we're in marketing Automation and marketing Ops people um and and in doing so uh I mentioned it one time on LinkedIn it got picked up by some of those um advocates in our community uh Sarah Mecha and and darl Alfonso and folks like that and we started growing by about 110 people a month ever since so it's been a number of years and we have over 5600 members now uh I like to to think of it as going from a team of one to a team of thousands um overnight or within seconds I love that so it's pretty cool yeah amazing and so let's start talking about the industry itself of marketing operations and then we can move into the community that you're building and how people can leverage that of what's up and coming so you've been in the role before so can you tell us a little bit about if somebody's new for example what is it that they should be expecting from the role and why is this up and coming uh sure I mean I think it was what like a year and a half ago two years ago it was um the like fastest growing job or like one of the most fast growing jobs on LinkedIn um and so you know I think I think organizations realize that they need uh help organizing their Tech stack and um and and really organizing that in a meaningful manner around sort of the people and the processes right I think it always starts with the people and so when you ask me um you know like sort of what does it take to get started or or like it sort of depends on who you're talking about like the the business owners need to know that this you know or like the executives in the room I guess they need to know that this role is is critical to to running a um as efficient and effective go to market Tech stock as as you can have right um if you think of it like if you're a it doesn't matter if you're if you're building a product or a service it doesn't matter you're selling something and you're trying to figure out how to streamline the delivery of that product or service all the time you as a business owner right in B2B SAS you've got product managers and you've got people who are literally building the software um you should think of marketing operations in in a very similar manner right they are their product is all of the technology that has to help the business move forward right and making sure that that orchestration happens in a way that matters to the unique fingerprint of your business and and so they start with the people internally they try to understand the process of what the go to market function looks like and who needs to be enabled in what ways and then they try to service those organizations those people in those processes with the right Technologies and you don't start with the tech first right you think about people in the process um so I think for for the businesses out there that's the sort of like way to think about it um you know for someone who's maybe looking to break into the role or anything like that um I would say maybe just get your start in I think a lot of us get our start in marketing automation um like really like email marketing is is a nice place to sort of dip your tow in U but I would also encourage you to look at the the new pillars of marketing operations that were published on our blog and launched at our conference last year because it'll help you um it reflects on the the structure that was introduced Years Ago by the thought leaders at atos and um expands upon that further and then gives you a little bit of a um architecture or like a framework to try to say okay well which pieces of marketing operations are interesting to me as a practitioner and where might I want to try to um learn a little bit more about that so I'd encourage you to look there uh as well sorry I just rambled for like a long time it's very exciting no a lot of exciting stuff and a lot of follow-up questions as well so we're I would love to talk a bit about the benchmarks that you have been talking about and also the releases that you did last year and now you mentioned marketing operations pillars so what does this role stand on um yeah you would think I have these memorized uh by by Heart by now no no worries you can share your screen here too yeah yeah um so so importantly I think it's really really important to um understand where these came from so let me see if I can share my screen uh I think I should be able how to share screen hey folks I switched browsers so hopefully this works all right let me just I think I need to enable this of marketing Ops and here we go all right cool so we're seeing screens great um really important to call out that in 2018 Edward unthink and the team at atos um really teed up what were very very important foundational uh sort of archetypes or or structures known as the four pillars of marketing operations and uh last year our team or I shouldn't say our team darl Alfonso worked with a number of other thought leaders um in the space to try to expand upon what has changed since 2018 in this vocation um and I think it's important for everybody to understand that you know these were these were the core initial four pillars um so platform operations campaign operations marketing intelligence uh they would refer to that as myops and then marketing operations development um and as you sort of unpack each of these um and the details are absolutely within sort of their their site um uh you'll start to understand some of the sort of nuances of what each of those might be but this past year we expanded or I should say Daryl and the team expanded and and shared this at our conference um that you know maybe it was time to sort of revamp this a little bit and expand further on it and so the new pillars that were introduced were uh around technology and data management and so you might look at this as building custom tools and front-end web development mtech implementations and migrations system admin data management data hygiene then there's strategy operations uh Strat Ops for short and this is really around like planning the the marketing Finance the organizational design um and some of the other sort of like special Pro projects that happen um so really trying to orchestrate and Orient your you know okrs to um go to market right and and use the Technologies and and the processes to drive those um enablement and pmo I really like that this got added in uh so the idea of like process design and Tool adoption how are you actually rolling out these Technologies and enabling your team um are you building out these campaigns and and are you managing the agencies or is it all internal right so this idea of like folding in some of the elements of go to market campaign operations into this uh category also happens and then you cannot talk about mtech Marketing in general um without talking about the fourth pillar which is of course like the marketing business intelligence and insights so like analytics right obviously dream data you you guys are very familiar with how important uh you know attribution analytics are so this is a key pillar in marketing Ops and you would work work on the funnel reporting the campaign analysis ROI analysis the customer experience analysis uh so on and so forth and so yeah again I've been rambling for a minute there's a lot to unpack here but this is a really good framework to operate against when it comes to well where where would I maybe want to build a career in this field um and which of these is interesting to you it's very interesting because like in a lot of people Minds when you say operations that sounds very data and very processes and how are we connec and how are we reporting but at the same time it's so much about the people as well about the people how are we aligning across the organization that type of a reporting so it's not just one role fits all so to say I'm just want to get you side by side there we go you're here good and when you are doing these types of researches as well where do you think that the marketing operations role is going in the future too because it has changed a lot since you have started this as well um yeah I think so there's there's a number of topics to talk about in that area um everybody watching this now or or perhaps the recording later um you of you are likely familiar with the term of Revenue operations or revops for sure um you know I think categorically we continue to push uh as a as a community as a as a vocation of practitioners in this field um we continue to push that revops is at least at a bare minimum the umbrella uh to house marketing operations sales operations and client success like CS Ops um and I would say uh it is not sales Ops 2.0 um so uh just just like thinking about well is there trying to address the question that that usually comes up between the lines which is is revops BAS and um my answer to that and I think a number of us in the community would say no it's it is just sort of the umbrella to house an alignment of your go to market operations team and you'll hear that term a lot too like go to market Ops is a perhaps a more encompassing view of uh you know all the operational practices that need to to enable a business to go to market right so yeah I I would say marketing Ops is a great path to becoming a CMO if that's something that you aspire to do that is not for everybody right so that is you don't get into marketing Ops just because you want to be a CMO um but I do think the the foundational layer that you pick up from running a Tech stack and aligning people in process um is just amazing to to your ability to be to become a datadriven CML which every organization wants today so interesting yeah and what a shift because before in times those five or more years ago a CMO is the brand person the overall overarching umbrella that is the face of the company and stuff like that and now we're talking data and introducing those types of CMOS to the picture future is exciting yes it's very very exciting it's a very unique um you know it's a unique role in general whether you're a CMO uh or some other executive SE Suite executive um the the needs of the business are so different today right um I don't know many other or executive roles that have the um I don't know if it's experience but definitely just the the sort of vocational responsibility to say well tell me about your business let's learn about what's going on internally let me let me understand your product and the data that your product needs to be able to you know um you know hand it over to sales and enable them get your your customer success team to renew customers and all these other things let me understand your basically the ENT entirety of your business from the top of the funnel to the bottom and the renewal again and then let me figure out how to build like an architecture to support that that business right um it sort of sounds like a CTO CIO kind of a thing but it's not it's like it's marketing and it's business acument and it's just different um and so it's a really exciting you know I think the right word for it is exciting where they usually see marketing operations reporting to personally um I see it more often rolling into it sort of straddles either like the just the marketing CMO like VP of marketing kind of role or the demand gen team um I I don't really love it when it's in the demand gen Department um because it ends up just like getting muddied with um more demand gen metrics and like our research would show uh that like the number one kpi for for marketing operations professional is Pipeline and a lot of that is symptomatic of like who they're sort of reporting into and like I it's like your job in marketing operations isn't to generate pipeline right it's it's an enablement function but a critical function to say well here are the elements you need to create a better environment to generate pipeline but my my direct contribution to did we spend a dollar and generate to is not so clear right um interesting so it's like yeah that's very hey product team or like developers you know your your job is to develop features that uh generate Revenue it's like well yeah but like you don't measure them on how much revenue the feature they buil Ates like you measure them on the quality of their ability to deliver a quality product um so I don't know that's great yeah people online if you've got any questions for Mike drop them in here we're happy to answer them about the role itself or the community happy to do that and now we're going to jump into a bit more into the topic of your community for itself so from where you were to start with with your slack Community what is the current status and where are you going with the community Mike sure um so current status of the community marketing ops.com is still sort of a baby um we only launched Marketing ops.com in uh June two years ago so it'll be about two years old um this June and uh and the community itself is a slack based community Community um For Better or Worse um and we have about 5600 members today uh we do have a podcast where we're sharing content thanks to the great work of Michael Hartman uh and Naomi Lou the co-hosts that we have there um we're try to share as much knowledge as we can uh through the podcast as well and then uh we do annual research projects to try to get some benchmarks of uh just sort of the pulse check on what's going on with the industry um and and our our sort of ultimate goal is uh really just to create that sort of like educational layer of both like educating top and tail right so Executives what is marketing operations and why do I need it right and then for those come kind of realizing that the thing that they've been doing is called marketing Ops like how do we get them to learn that before they fall into the role um and so we're we're really trying to create that environment to educate the market and then ultimately um work with the community I I pulled a board of uh experts together last year and I'll I'll likely do it again this next year in 2025 to um Define what it truly means to be a certified marketing operations professional but backed by the community right not just like Mike's bra came up with a certification like that's not oh that's very not Val to anybody so yeah um that's sort of what what I aspire to do so that uh you know I think with the right Community back certification program in place we're going to be able to protect a lot of people's um jobs right and I don't mean that you don't get laid off I just mean that you don't get handed a bunch of stuff that you just shouldn't be doing yeah yeah and and then you know therefore creating better career paths exciting tell me more about how the collaboration happens in the marketing operations Community like for Learning and to collaborate with your paays sure sure yeah so um the slack channel is free to join uh there are channels that are specific to different marketing automation platforms there are also channels specific to um sort of just like teex stack discussions right like strategies for um lead scoring or data and analytics or even privacy and compliance um these are all challenges that we face and uh you can just post into slack anytime you want often someone will get back to you within just a few minutes if not less uh because there's a pretty active group there um if you do decide to join as a paid member of the community it's $250 a year uh currently at at our intro rate um to become a pro member and what that does is unlocks access to some of our private channels for paid members only it also gives you the ability and I think this is probably the most important one um you can now connect oneon-one just like you and I are doing here on this video chat Laura um you can connect oneon-one with other members of the community and it does that for you automatically so you join this it's a platform we have called matcha um and it automatically yeah love matcha yeah it's great right and uh it automatically introduces you to a fellow Community member um and when when you think about how important it is to your career um to be connected to to peers in your space right it's not just what you know it's who you know um we are trying to facilitate that connection with with our members as well so we can do that in the online space we can also do it in the offline space with uh in-person events so paid members also have access to local meetups um that are for the paid members only and and so we're trying to bring more of the community together physically as well um and so those are those are some of the ways in which you can sort of dive in engage with the community fantastic and since the role is still up and coming at least well you have one or two in your organization if you're lucky then you definitely need some peers to speak about how I'm measuring stuff because otherwise you're directed by I don't know demand gen lead who wants you to report on revenue and and like why didn't we do that what the next thing we should do for sure I I love that and it's so supportive as well can you speak a bit more about the strategies and initiatives how you make sure that the community is thriving and helping each other all the time yeah uh absolutely I think um for anybody who's thinking about a community approach for their organization I I highly encourage you to first start with some of like similar to the way I suggested marketing operations professionals look at a framework um there's a wonderful framework that was first introduced by cmx uh which is a community for Community buils um and it is it's called the spaces model um and so it helps you sort of like understand what type of uh Community you might be Building Product oriented or uh Innovation um support oriented Etc in our case we're a community of practice so it it sort of like Falls a little outside of that um out of all of those models and it's like a mix of all of them combined um but I first and foremost like say hey go look at at these Frameworks because then it helps you understand what you might want to do to enable the community and for us um enabling the community to stay healthy is it's a mix of a couple things like one you have to F you know we we do gate the community um you have to sign up and uh it helps us keep Bad actors out right like anyone who they would have to be pretty gutsy to fill out the free profile and like you know it's not a huge barrier but at least it's a barrier um we have some very hard and fast rules in our community guidelines that are published on the website and we adhere to those regularly U we also encourage all of our members to point individuals to those rules at any given time um and then just to report to us if they see any sort of um activity that they don't like maybe usually that comes in in the vein of prospecting or selling or something like that because this is a community for practitioners right so yeah you're not meant to be there trying to farm leads or anything like that um and and because we're not uh represented by any one organization right we're able to sort of keep that um protective layer around the community um I would also say like for us the things that have worked um are leaning in on some of the programs that I was just talking about right um the idea of coming together in different groups when we first launched our community we um we created what we referred to as the chairperson program and and this helped us um uh give a a member of of our community and elevated status um as the representative for a particular uh technology so um we honed in on the sort of the four most common I would say uh marketing automation platforms so it was like HubSpot maretto parot and eloqua and we appointed uh we took in applications and then ended up appointing somebody to represent the sort of that corner of the technology and then just host really good discussions right right and um that kind of like Niche within the niche uh really helps um you know people align to to what I don't know the the learning potential for different categories right um we did retire that program over the last year or two or year and a half um will likely bring it back uh there was just like we're a very lean team we have like I don't know like five six of us that are really working on the business all the time and then um there's contractors and so forth and and so we were like okay well we're launching a conference it's hard to sort of juggle everything at once right so that doesn't sound so little from that tiny slack community that you build up more or less for yourself now with having so many people to work around that I think it's very impressive oh thank you yeah I mean it's we have an incredible team um uh that are all very very passionate um about just you know the idea of like bringing people together in this particular sector I'm very very lucky to have all of them involved now because yeah when I I I I was like oh my gosh the community wants so many things how on Earth am I gonna be able to do like I'll figure it out and so uh thankfully I don't have to figure it all out by myself anymore great tell me more about your upand cominging event and what can people expect from it yeah yeah absolutely so last year we did mopsa paloa was the first it was the inaugural year of that conference um this is you're going to hear me sort of beat the drum over and over again it is a community-led event um which means that all of the sessions are um from the practitioners themselves there isn't any way for you to buy a sponsorship and get stage time um and so we really focus on giving our community members a chance to share their knowledge um equally we also create space for members of the community who don't normally get a chance to speak right so if you have never spoken before U MSA ploa is a great way for you to you know Flex that new muscle or build that new muscle um and and we really want to support the community in that manner so last year we hosted a hybrid event um it was 300 13 people that came together in Anaheim California um right behind Disneyland it was a great time we will do it again in the in the same uh environment uh in total last year we had 750 attendees combined with the online viewers as well um so this year we expect to you know ideally do more more than that right and reach more folks um we will host it in the same location in Anaheim this November it'll be the 4th through the 6th and um you can expect again community-led content the thing that we are changing up is um the agenda will be slightly different this year um on the first day which is what I would refer to as day Zero um Monday we're actually hosting live training so you get to learn from the the community members themselves that are experts in this field um on a wide array of topics so um some of them are very Tech technal like how do I actually Leverage The maretto API using Postman and maybe zapier to create more automations and make me more efficient with my maretto instance uh others are how do I actually build out a set of reports that the board and CMOS care about and how do I support my organization when they're asking for these things um and so uh a really good mix of uh live training from Real World practice practitioners which I think is like super super valuable right it's not um I don't know it just feels different right these conferences you you go to that are backed by you know big software companies they're all great um for very for varying degree of reasons right especially if you're super passionate about those Technologies um but I think it uh sometimes it leaves those that have been around in the role uh a little while it leaves them a little hungry right um they're like hey I someone show me how they actually did the thing right yeah um and so that's what we we aspire to do um so we do have the tickets on sale now at early bird rates through the end of May um and uh you can buy one ticket to come to the conference and access two of those live workshops included uh you can also buy the magic pass uh the magic pass gets you access to two of the workshops and you can come to Disneyland with us on Thursday okay so we do have that uh that included as well but it it'll be a really good event uh we are going to cap uh registration this year too um so our Max Capacity is about 680 okay so it feels like we're we've I think we've already sold 70 tickets this year yeah so it feels like we're rapidly coming up against um God numbers I really hope that you max out because it's a very good conference and the content I've heard people sharing from it is amazing it's yeah all the best for you guys anything else that we need to have a chat about your community before we wrap up no I would I would say just um you know if if you're just looking to expand in your career in general um or if you want to learn more about what this is all about um if you're a student graduating soon uh I just spent time at at my alma moer a couple weeks ago speaking to students and they had no idea this was a category right um please come spend time with us uh be a fly on thewall join the free slack Channel um you know we're we're really here to just support you um so yeah that's I don't know it's it's an exciting time to be in marketing operations and I would encourage people to uh whether it's our community or another one go get involved in a community I guess I agree I agree and my you're building something very strong to for that niche of marketing operations because as you're saying kind of most of the communities are targeted to some niches and then there is a tiny one group for marketing operations where marketers are also there it's not the same as you can learn how to do automations with maretto or stuff like that not the same it's really good yeah yeah definitely I appreciate it uh Laura and and I appreciate apprciate you know you having me on and and dream data I love what you guys are doing with all this content and you know your New York ads and these things they're all exciting to follow so um thank you thank you you'll see more of those as well for sure Mike and everybody listening thank you so much for today we're done I appreciate it see you later

### Why I picked this
Second Mike interview untuk triangulasi. Lebih tactical, kasih insight bagaimana niche community jadi commercial asset.

---
